"To be one is always to become with many. Some of these personal microscopic
biota are dangerous to the me who is writing this sentence; they are held in
check for now by the measures of the coordinated symphony of all the others,
human cells and not, that make the conscious me possible. " p.4

"Figures collect the people through their invitation to inhabit the corporeal
story told in their lineaments. Figures are not representations or didactic
illustrations, but rather material–semiotic nodes or knots in which diverse
bodies and meanings coshape one another." p.4

"Neither the partners nor the meetings in this book are merely literary
conceits; rather, they are ordinary beings-in-encounter in the house, lab,
field, zoo, park, office, prison, ocean, stadium, barn, or factory. As ordinary
knotted beings, they are also always meaning-making figures that gather up those
who respond to them into unpredictable kinds of “we.”" p.5

"As my informants in U.S. dog culture would say, Jim’s is a real dog, a one-off,
like a fine mixed-ancestry dog who could never be replicated but must be
encountered. Surely, there is no question about the mixed and myriad ancestors,
as well as contemporaries, in this encrusted charcoal dog. I think this is what
Alfred North Whitehead might have meant by a concrescence of prehensions." p.7

"The Man of Perfect Proportions brings both the number magic and the reallife
organic ubiquity of the Fibonacci sequence to the fore." p.8

"Modernist versions of humanism and posthumanism alike have taproots in a series
of what Bruno Latour calls the Great Divides between what counts as nature and
as society, as nonhuman and as human. Whelped in the Great Divides, the
principal Others to Man, including his “posts,” are well documented in
ontological breed registries in both past and present Western cultures: gods,
machines, animals, monsters, creepy crawlies, women, servants and slaves, and
noncitizens in general. Outside the security checkpoint of bright reason,
outside the apparatuses of re production of the sacred image of the same,
these “others” have a remarkable capacity to induce panic in the centers of
power and selfcertainty." p. 9-10

"Technophilias and technophobias vie with organophilias and organ ophobias, and
taking sides is not left to chance. If one loves organic nature, to express a
love of technology makes one suspect. If one finds cyborgs to be promising sorts
of monsters, then one is an unreliable ally in the fight against the destruction
of all things organic." p.10

"In particular, this would-be rapist-in-defense-of-mother-earth seems shaped by
the culturally normal fantasy of human exceptionalism. This is the premise that
humanity alone is not a spatial and temporal web of interspecies dependencies."
p. 11

"The threatening man at the conference was well marinated in the
institutionalized, long dominant Western fantasy that all that is fully human is
fallen from Eden, separated from the mother, in the domain of the artificial,
deracinated, alienated, and therefore free. For this man, the way out of his
culture’s deep commitments to human exceptionalism requires a one-way rapture to
the other side of the divide. To return to the mother is to return to nature and
stand against Manthe-Destroyer, by advocating the rape of women scientists at
Monsanto, if available, or of a traitorous keynote environmentalist feminist, if
one is on the spot." p. 11

"Freud described three great historical wounds to the primary narcissism of the
self-centered human subject, who tries to hold panic at bay by the fantasy of
human exceptionalism. First is the Copernican wound that removed Earth itself,
man’s home world, from the center of the cosmos and indeed paved the way for
that cosmos to burst open into a universe of inhumane, nonteleological times and
spaces. Science made that decentering cut. The second wound is the Darwinian,
which put Homo sapiens firmly in the world of other critters, all trying to make
an earthly living and so evolving in relation to one another without the
sureties of directional signposts that culminate in Man. Science inflicted
that cruel cut too. The third wound is the Freudian, which posited an
unconscious that undid the primacy of conscious processes, including the reason
that comforted Man with his unique excellence, with dire consequences for
teleology once again. Science seems to hold that blade too. I want to add a
fourth wound, the informatic or cyborgian, which infolds organic and
technological flesh and so melds that Great Divide as well." p. 11-12

"Freud knew Darwinism is not moderate, and a good thing too. Doing without both
teleology and human exceptionalism is, in my opinion, essential to getting
laptops and lapdogs into one lap. More to the point, these wounds to
self-certainty are necessary, if not yet sufficient, to no longer easily
uttering the sentence in any domain, “Ladies and gentlemen, behold the enemy!”"
p.12

"This wolf found at the edge of the forest and raised by scientists figures who
I find myself to be in the world—that is, an organism shaped by a post–World War
II biology that is saturated with information sciences and technologies, a
biologist schooled in those discourses, and a practitioner of the humanities and
ethnographic social sciences." p. 13

"The wolf mentor and sponsor of the visitor is generous, willing to forgive some
degree of ignorance, but it is up to the visitor to learn about her new
acquaintances. If all goes well, they will become messmates, companion species,
and significant others to one another, as well as conspecifics. The
scientist–wolf will send back data as well as bring data to the wolves in the
forest. These encounters will shape naturecultures for them all.

"A great deal is at stake in such meetings, and outcomes are not guaranteed.
There is no teleological warrant here, no assured happy or unhappy ending,
socially, ecologically, or scientifically. There is only the chance for getting
on together with some grace. The Great Divides of animal/human, nature/culture,
organic/technical, and wild/domestic flatten into mundane differences—the kinds
that have consequences and demand respect and response—rather than rising to
sublime and final ends." p.15

"Canid, hominid; pet, professor; bitch, woman; animal, human; athlete,
handler. One of us has a microchip injected under her neck skin for
identification; the other has a photo ID California driver’s license. One of us
has a written record of her ancestors for twenty generations; one of us does not
know her great grandparents’ names. One of us, product of a vast genetic
mixture, is called “purebred.” One of us, equally a product of a vast mixture,
is called “white.” Each of these names designates a different racial discourse,
and we both inherit their consequences in our flesh." p.15

